README.md, before:

# cu-fcchat-docker

Lightweight Docker environment to run and upgrade a legacy phpBB forum (PHP 5.6 + Apache) for local testing.

## Prerequisites

- Fork/clone this repository to your local machine. If you're using GitHub, fork the repo then clone your fork (or clone this repo directly):

```bash
# example (replace with your fork URL or the repo URL)
git clone git@github.com:<your-username>/cu-fcchat-docker.git
cd cu-fcchat-docker
```

- Install Docker Desktop (Windows/macOS) or Docker Engine + Docker Compose (Linux): https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop
- Verify:

```pwsh
docker --version
docker compose version   # or: docker-compose --version
```

## Quick Start

1. Copy the live server's phpBB site files into this repo's `phpbb/` folder (FTP/SFTP; copy `/var/www/html`).
2. Export a SQL backup from the live server (phpMyAdmin or export tool) and place the `.sql` file at `db_init/001_phpbb_backup.sql`.
  A placeholder example `db_init/001_phpbb_backup.sql.example` is included — copy your real dump to `db_init/001_phpbb_backup.sql` (the real file is ignored by git).
3. Build and run the stack from the repo root:

```pwsh
Set-Location 'C:\cu-fcchat-docker'
docker compose up --build
# or detached: docker compose up -d --build
```

Note: MariaDB runs SQL files in `db_init/` only on first-volume initialization. If the DB volume exists, import the SQL into the running DB container instead.

## Backup and Restore

Use the included snapshot/restore scripts before upgrades.

- Windows (PowerShell): `snapshot.ps1`, `restore.ps1`
- Linux/macOS (sh): `snapshot.sh`, `restore.sh`

Create a snapshot (example):

```pwsh
docker compose up -d   # ensure DB is up
.\snapshot.ps1
```

Restore a snapshot (example):

```pwsh
# Interactive selection:
.\restore.ps1

# Or non-interactive by folder name (e.g. 20251106_0102_3.2.11):
.\restore.ps1 -SnapshotFolder 20251106_0102_3.2.11
```

Backups are saved under `backups/` (this folder is ignored by git). Test restores in a disposable environment.

## Upgrade phpBB guidance

1. Take a snapshot (DB + files).
2. Update `phpbb/` code or mount a test copy.
 
3. Run phpBB upgrade steps (ACP or CLI) and verify functionality.
4. Test thoroughly (logins, posts, extensions, themes). If rollback needed, restore the snapshot.

If upgrading PHP itself, perform the migration in a separate staging image and test all extensions/themes.

## Docker container details

- Web: `php` image `php:5.6-apache` (Dockerfile adjusts apt to use Debian archive mirrors to allow old packages).
- DB: `mariadb:10.5` (initialized from `db_init/` on first run).
- PHP extensions installed: gd, mysqli, mbstring, intl, zip, xml (see `Dockerfile`).
- Entrypoint (`docker-entrypoint.sh`) fixes permissions, clears cache/sessions and writes a small php ini for sessions/error logging.
- Volumes (persistent):
  - uploads: `phpbb_data_uploads` → `/var/www/html/files`
  - cache: `phpbb_data_cache` → `/var/www/html/cache`
  - sessions: `phpbb_data_sessions` → `/var/www/html/store`
  - db: `phpbb_db_data` → `/var/lib/mysql`
- Local override: `config/docker.config.php` is copied into `phpbb/config.php` by the entrypoint to point phpBB to the DB service (`db`, user `phpbbuser`, password `phpbbpass`) — dev only.

Security: this environment is for local testing. The Dockerfile relaxes apt/security checks to install legacy packages — do not use this image in production or expose it to untrusted networks.

---

For more detail see `Dockerfile`, `docker-entrypoint.sh`, `docker-compose.yml` and the scripts in the repo.

Commit message:

Update Quick Start with backup restoration option
- Document two setup methods: copy live data OR restore from repo backups
- Include both interactive and non-interactive restore examples
- Makes it clear colleagues can use existing backups without live server access

README.md, after:

# cu-fcchat-docker

Lightweight Docker environment to run and upgrade a legacy phpBB forum (PHP 5.6 + Apache) for local testing.

## Prerequisites

- Fork/clone this repository to your local machine. If you're using GitHub, fork the repo then clone your fork (or clone this repo directly):

```bash
# example (replace with your fork URL or the repo URL)
git clone git@github.com:<your-username>/cu-fcchat-docker.git
cd cu-fcchat-docker
```

- Install Docker Desktop (Windows/macOS) or Docker Engine + Docker Compose (Linux): https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop
- Verify:

```pwsh
docker --version
docker compose version   # or: docker-compose --version
```

## Quick Start

You can set up the environment in two ways:

**Option A: Copy live server data**
1. Copy the live server's phpBB site files into this repo's `phpbb/` folder (FTP/SFTP; copy `/var/www/html`).
2. Export a SQL backup from the live server (phpMyAdmin or export tool) and place the `.sql` file at `db_init/001_phpbb_backup.sql`.
  A placeholder example `db_init/001_phpbb_backup.sql.example` is included — copy your real dump to `db_init/001_phpbb_backup.sql` (the real file is ignored by git).

**Option B: Restore from an existing backup in the repo**
1. List available backups in the `backups/` directory (e.g., `20251106_0102_3.2.11`).
2. Run the restore script:

```pwsh
# Interactive selection:
.\restore.ps1

# Or non-interactive by folder name (e.g. 20251106_0102_3.2.11):
.\restore.ps1 -SnapshotFolder 20251106_0102_3.2.11
```

This will restore both the phpBB files and database from the selected backup.

**Then build and run:**

3. Build and run the stack from the repo root:

```pwsh
Set-Location 'C:\cu-fcchat-docker'
docker compose up --build
# or detached: docker compose up -d --build
```

Note: MariaDB runs SQL files in `db_init/` only on first-volume initialization. If the DB volume exists, import the SQL into the running DB container instead.

## Backup and Restore

Use the included snapshot/restore scripts before upgrades.

- Windows (PowerShell): `snapshot.ps1`, `restore.ps1`
- Linux/macOS (sh): `snapshot.sh`, `restore.sh`

Create a snapshot (example):

```pwsh
docker compose up -d   # ensure DB is up
.\snapshot.ps1
```

Restore a snapshot (example):

```pwsh
# Interactive selection:
.\restore.ps1

# Or non-interactive by folder name (e.g. 20251106_0102_3.2.11):
.\restore.ps1 -SnapshotFolder 20251106_0102_3.2.11
```

Backups are saved under `backups/` (this folder is ignored by git). Test restores in a disposable environment.

## Upgrade phpBB guidance

1. Take a snapshot (DB + files).
2. Update `phpbb/` code or mount a test copy.
 
3. Run phpBB upgrade steps (ACP or CLI) and verify functionality.
4. Test thoroughly (logins, posts, extensions, themes). If rollback needed, restore the snapshot.

If upgrading PHP itself, perform the migration in a separate staging image and test all extensions/themes.

## Docker container details

- Web: `php` image `php:5.6-apache` (Dockerfile adjusts apt to use Debian archive mirrors to allow old packages).
- DB: `mariadb:10.5` (initialized from `db_init/` on first run).
- PHP extensions installed: gd, mysqli, mbstring, intl, zip, xml (see `Dockerfile`).
- Entrypoint (`docker-entrypoint.sh`) fixes permissions, clears cache/sessions and writes a small php ini for sessions/error logging.
- Volumes (persistent):
  - uploads: `phpbb_data_uploads` → `/var/www/html/files`
  - cache: `phpbb_data_cache` → `/var/www/html/cache`
  - sessions: `phpbb_data_sessions` → `/var/www/html/store`
  - db: `phpbb_db_data` → `/var/lib/mysql`
- Local override: `config/docker.config.php` is copied into `phpbb/config.php` by the entrypoint to point phpBB to the DB service (`db`, user `phpbbuser`, password `phpbbpass`) — dev only.

Security: this environment is for local testing. The Dockerfile relaxes apt/security checks to install legacy packages — do not use this image in production or expose it to untrusted networks.

---

For more detail see `Dockerfile`, `docker-entrypoint.sh`, `docker-compose.yml` and the scripts in the repo.
